Data Cleaning and Exploratory Data Analysis

For data cleaning, I read the data and checked for missing values in specific columns that are important to my analysis: base_passenger_fare (how much the passenger is charged), tips, driver_pay, pickup_datetime, and dropoff_datetime. There were no null values in any of these columns. Then I manually checked the trip_time column by calculating the trip duration by subtracting pickup_datetime from dropoff_datetime. I created a new column to flag if any rows had different values for my manual calculation and the given trip_time value. If there was greater than a second difference in the times, the flag was set. I found that 888,922 trip_time values were incorrect. I manually investigated these rows and found no logical reason as to why this would occur. To ensure consistency throughout the dataset, I dropped the trip_time column and kept my manually calculated column. Next, I reduced the precision of float64 columns to float32 columns to preserve memory on my system. Lastly, I removed all rows where base_passenger_fare and driver_pay were $0 or negative. Logically, it does not make sense for passengers to be charged nothing or a negative amount. It also does not make sense for drivers to paid nothing or a negative amount. Perhaps, these were rides that ended up being refunded to the passenger, but for the purposes of this analysis, it does not make sense to consider these rows. 

To explore the data, I visualized the wages. I looked at a scatter plot to see the relationship between tips and driver pay, and base passenger fare and driver pay. I also made a histogram to explore the distribution of tips. Lastly, I used the describe() function in polars to get statistics to check for outliers and issues with the data. The overall finding from this exploration is that most tips are small which is somewhat expected.

I identified two issues when parsing the data (which were described above):
1. Negative values. I resolved this by removing rows with negative values.
2. Duration mismatch. I resolved this by manually calculating duration and dropping the given duration column.